# Graph File Format

This document presents the various on disk file formats supported by GF. For the
in-memory graph formats, read [this doc instead](graph_formats.md).

## GF Graph

The GF Graph format is the primary and most efficient way to serialize small and
large graphs. The format is efficient, compatible with open-source / cloud,
suited for distributed reading & reading, and easily creatable manually / with
other tools.

[Here](https://data.corp.google.com/cnsviewer/file?query=%2Fcns%2Fiz-d%2Fhome%2Fresearch-graph%2Fpublic%2Fgraphflow_datasets%2Ffetch_repo%2Fogb_mag%2F&user=)
is an example of GF Graph.

### Utilization

Reading and writing a GF Graph in memory is done respectively with
`dgf.io.read_graph` and `dgf.io.write_graph`.

```python
graph, schema = dgf.io.read_graph(
    "/cns/iz-d/home/research-graph/public/graphflow_datasets/fetch_repo/ogb_arxiv")

dgf.io.write_graph(graph, schema, path="/tmp/my_graph")
```

Reading and writing a GF Graph as a Beam distributed graph is done respectively
with `dgf.beam.io.read_graph` and `dgf.beam.io.write_graph`.

### Directory structure

A GF graph is structured as follow:

-   `metadata.json`: A json specifying details about the graph encoding:
    -   Version of the format as an integer.
    -   Optionally, contains the number of nodes and edges in each
        nodesets/edgesets.
-   `schema.json`: The `dgf.data.GraphSchema` graph schema in json.
    -   The nodesets are required to have a feature of type bytes or
        int{int32,64} with semantic `PRIMARY_KEY`.
    -   The edgesets can optionally have an feature of type bytes or
        int{int32,64} with semantic `PRIMARY_KEY`. This specifies if the edges
        have ids.
-   `nodesets` directory:
    -   `<nodeset name>@*.parquet`: Feature values for each nodeset stored as
        sharded parquet files. The `#id` column specifies the ID of the node.
-   `edgesets` directory:
    -   `<edgeset name>@*.parquet`: Source and target node id, and feature
        values, of each edgeset, stored as sharded parquet files. The optional
        `#id` column specifies the ID of the edge. The id of the source and
        target nodes are stored in the `#source` and `#target` features.

### About Parquet files

Parquet has become the de facto format for tabular data. A lot of internal and
external tools can produce parquet files natively. You can use `parquet-tools`
to look at the parquet files directly.

In Google SQL / BQ, you can generate parquet files with `EXPORT DATA` and
`format = 'PARQUET'`. Parquet files can be generated by Beam pipelines.

## Graph AI HGraph

A Graph AI HGraph (or just HGraph) is another directory-based format for
defining heterogeneous graphs.

The HGraph format is similar to the GF format, with two major differences:

-   Nodes and edges are stored as `tensorflow.Example` or other proprietary
    protos (instead of parquet files).
-   The protos are encapsulated within SSTables, RecordIO or TF Records.
-   The schema is defined by a TF-GNN schema proto (instead of a GF JSON
    Schema). This schema is more lenient (e.g., ID features are optional) and
    does not carry semantic information.

**Recommendation**

Because of efficiency reasons (up to 100x speed difference), Cloud / open-source
compatibility, and ease of creation / consumption, using the GF format is always
recommended over the Graph AI Graph format.

[Here](https://data.corp.google.com/cnsviewer/file?query=%2Fcns%2Fiz-d%2Fhome%2Fresearch-graph%2Fpublic%2Fgraphflow_datasets%2Fogbn_arxiv%2Fraw_hgraph%2F&user=)
is an example of TF Graph Samples.

### Utilization

Reading and writing a Graph AI Graph in memory is done respectively with
`dgf.io.read_graphai_hgraph` and `dgf.io.write_graphai_hgraph`.

Reading and writing a GF Graph as a Beam distributed graph is done respectively
with `dgf.beam.io.read_graphai_hgraph` and `dgf.beam.io.write_graphai_hgraph`.

Combining `dgf.io.read_graphai_hgraph` with `dgf.io.write_graph` allows you to
convert small (e.g. <100 edges) HGraph into GF graphs.

The
[convert_hgraph_to_gfgraph](https://source.corp.google.com/piper///depot/google3/third_party/py/dgf/examples/convert_hgraph_to_gf_graph.py)
Beam CLI allows you to convert large HGraph to GF Graph.

## TF Graph Samples

A TF Graph Samples file defines one or several small heterogeneous graphs, where
each graph fits in memory of a single computer. TF Graph Samples files are well
suited to represent a large amount of small graphs e.g., graph samples.

A TF Graph Samples file (or sharded file) is a TensorFlow Record file containing
serialized `tensorflow.Example` protos, following the conventions of TF GNN
Graph.

Note: Unlike for Graph AI HGraph, the use of tensorflow.Example in TF Graph
Samples is mostly efficient.

[Here](https://data.corp.google.com/cnsviewer/file?query=%2Fcns%2Fiz-d%2Fhome%2Fresearch-graph%2Fpublic%2Fgraphflow_datasets%2Fogbn_arxiv%2Fraw_gnn_samples_d2_w2_sfull%2F&user=)
is an example of TF Graph Samples.

### Utilization

TF Graph Samples can be read/written in memory `dgf.io.read_tfgnn_graphs` and
`dgf.io.write_tfgnn_graphs`.

TF Graph Samples can be read/written in Beam using
`dgf.beam.io.read_tfgnn_graph` and `dgf.beam.io.write_tfgnn_graphs`.
